Welcome back.
Let's quickly talk about pointer's something that you'll hear a lot in computer science topics a pointer
is simply this.
It's a reference to another place in memory or another object or another node and in javascript we can
demonstrate it with something like this.
If I have an object let's call it object one that is a simple object that has a as true.
And I'm going to comment this out
and now we do something like Konst object 2 equals object 1.
We've just created a pointer a reference to an object and that is what a pointer is.
It's simply a reference here.
I'm not copying the object.
I'm not saying object 1 equals Akos.
True.
And also creating another location in memory that says A equals true in memory when we look at our ram.
There's only one entry.
A equals to true and both object want an object to point to the same location in memory to show you
that is the case.
Let's just console log
object 1 and then console dialog.
Object to.
And just so we're clear on this.
I'm going to say one here and this is going to be two so that if I run this I have both a ECOs to true.
But if I change object A or accessing property in object one and I say that is going to equal Booya
and I run this look of that both object Twan an object to changed because I've created a pointer here
saying I object to is going to reference object 1 like so.
And they both point to the same location in memory.
And that's what a pointer is.
It's simply saying Hey this is where it is in memory and when we look at our link list example when
we remove let's say a node at index of two and I Hago one two we remove that and that just disappears
from memory how does that work.
Well if we go back to our example I can just delete object 1 and I'm going to change this in to lead
because we are going to change the values here.
Phi click run.
I get reference error object Twan is not defined at line 14.
That's right over here.
OK.
So let's just comment this out because object 1 doesn't exist anymore.
Reichlich run.
I still have object to as Booya even though we deleted object 1.
What's happening here well the way it works in most programming languages is that our computers are
going to delete the memory that is on use and because it sees that object to is still referencing this
location in memory this value in memory it's not going to delete it.
Because there's still a pointer to this location and memory.
And this is how things get deleted.
In languages like javascript this is what you might call garbage collection where as soon as we say
object to dot or object two equals hello now and I click Run now object to which you referenced the
memory space that had a equals to true is now just simply a string.
So because javascript is garbage collected that is memory is managed automatically.
This gets automatically garbage collected and deleted because nothing is pointing to it.
However there is a low level languages where you have to manage your own memory and you have to manually
delete this on referenced item in memory.
And this can cause a lot of possible issues where you leave memory that's not being used in memory which
is a valuable resource.
But then there's also benefits with non garbage collected languages where you get to manage your own
memory so you can make things really really fast that efficient.
All right.
I think that's enough for pointer's a pointer is simply a reference to something else in memory.
And we're going to use this knowledge in our next video to create our very first linked list data structure.
I'll see in the next one.